=head1 NAME

rabbitmq-service - manage RabbitMQ AMQP service

=head1 SYNOPSIS

rabbitmq-service.bat command

=head1 DESCRIPTION

RabbitMQ is an implementation of AMQP, the emerging standard for high
performance enterprise messaging. The RabbitMQ server is a robust and
scalable implementation of an AMQP broker.

Running B<rabbitmq-service> allows the RabbitMQ broker to be run as a
service on NT/2000/2003/XP/Vista® environments. The RabbitMQ broker 
service can be started and stopped using the Windows® services 
applet. 

By default the service will run in the authentication context of the 
local system account. It is therefore necessary to synchronise Erlang
cookies between the local system account (typically 
C<C:\WINDOWS\.erlang.cookie> and the account that will be used to
run B<rabbitmqctl>.

=head1 COMMANDS

=head2 help

Display usage information.

=head2 install 

Install the service. The service will not be started.
Subsequent invocations will update the service parameters if
relevant environment variables were modified.

=head2 remove

Remove the service. If the service is running then it will
automatically be stopped before being removed. No files will be
deleted as a consequence and B<rabbitmq-server> will remain operable.

=head2 start

Start the service. The service must have been correctly installed
beforehand. 

=head2 stop

Stop the service. The service must be running for this command to 
have any effect.

=head2 disable

Disable the service. This is the equivalent of setting the startup
type to B<Disabled> using the service control panel.

=head2 enable

Enable the service. This is the equivalent of setting the startup
type to B<Automatic> using the service control panel.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=head2 RABBITMQ_SERVICENAME

Defaults to RabbitMQ.
This is the location of log and database directories.

=head2 RABBITMQ_BASE

Defaults to the application data directory of the current user.
This is the location of log and database directories.

=head2 RABBITMQ_NODENAME

Defaults to "rabbit". This can be useful if you want to run more than
one node per machine - B<RABBITMQ_NODENAME> should be unique per
erlang-node-and-machine combination. See clustering on a single
machine guide at
L<http://www.rabbitmq.com/clustering.html#single-machine> for details.

=head2 RABBITMQ_NODE_IP_ADDRESS

Defaults to "0.0.0.0". This can be changed if you only want to bind
to one network interface. 

=head2 RABBITMQ_NODE_PORT

Defaults to 5672. 

=head2 ERLANG_SERVICE_MANAGER_PATH

Defaults to F<C:\Program Files\erl5.5.5\erts-5.5.5\bin>. This is 
the installation location of the Erlang service manager.

=head2 CLUSTER_CONFIG_FILE

If this file is present it is used by the server to
auto-configure a RabbitMQ cluster.  See the clustering guide
at L<http://www.rabbitmq.com/clustering.html> for details.

=head2 RABBITMQ_CONSOLE_LOG

Set this varable to B<new> or B<reuse> to have the console 
output from the server redirected to a file named B<SERVICENAME>.debug
in the  application data directory of the user that installed the service.
Under Vista this will be F<C:\Documents and Settings\User\AppData\username\SERVICENAME>.
Under previous versions of Windows this will be 
F<C:\Documents and Settings\username\Application Data\SERVICENAME>.
If B<RABBITMQ_CONSOLE_LOG> is set to B<new> then a new file will be
created each time the service starts. If B<RABBITMQ_CONSOLE_LOG> is
set to B<reuse> then the file will be overwritten each time the
service starts.  The default behaviour when B<RABBITMQ_CONSOLE_LOG> is
not set or set to a value other than B<new> or B<reuse> is to discard
the server output.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Start a previously-installed RabbitMQ AMQP service:

          rabbitmq-service start

=head1 AUTHOR

The RabbitMQ Team <info@rabbitmq.com>

=head1 REFERENCES

RabbitMQ Web Site: http://www.rabbitmq.com
