.\" vim:ft=nroff:
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License
.\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License
.\" at http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
.\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
.\" the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The Original Code is RabbitMQ.
.\"
.\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Pivotal Software, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2017 Pivotal Software, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd April 25, 2017
.Dt RABBITMQ-SERVER 8
.Os "RabbitMQ Server"
.Sh NAME
.Nm rabbitmq-server
.Nd start RabbitMQ AMQP server
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Nm
.Op Fl detached
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
RabbitMQ is an implementation of AMQP, the emerging standard for high
performance enterprise messaging.
The RabbitMQ server is a robust and scalable implementation of an AMQP
broker.
.Pp
Running
.Nm
in the foreground displays a banner message, and reports on progress in
the startup sequence, concluding with the message
.Qq broker running ,
indicating that the RabbitMQ broker has been started successfully.
To shut down the server, just terminate the process or use
.Xr rabbitmqctl 8 .
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev RABBITMQ_MNESIA_BASE
Defaults to
.Pa /var/lib/rabbitmq/mnesia .
Set this to the directory where Mnesia database files should be placed.
.It Ev RABBITMQ_LOG_BASE
Defaults to
.Pa /var/log/rabbitmq .
Log files generated by the server will be placed in this directory.
.It Ev RABBITMQ_NODENAME
Defaults to
.Qq rabbit .
This can be useful if you want to run more than one node per machine -
.Ev RABBITMQ_NODENAME
should be unique per erlang-node-and-machine combination.
See the
.Lk http://www.rabbitmq.com/clustering.html#single-machine "clustering on a single machine guide"
for details.
.It Ev RABBITMQ_NODE_IP_ADDRESS
By default RabbitMQ will bind to all interfaces, on IPv4 and IPv6 if
available.
Set this if you only want to bind to one network interface or address
family.
.It Ev RABBITMQ_NODE_PORT
Defaults to 5672.
.El
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh OPTIONS
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -detached
Start the server process in the background.
Note that this will cause the pid not to be written to the pid file.
.Pp
For example, runs RabbitMQ AMQP server in the background:
.sp
.Dl rabbitmq-server -detached
.El
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Xr rabbitmq-env.conf 5 ,
.Xr rabbitmq-echopid 8 ,
.Xr rabbitmq-plugins 8 ,
.Xr rabbitmq-service 8 ,
.Xr rabbitmqctl 8
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh AUTHOR
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.An The RabbitMQ Team Aq Mt info@rabbitmq.com
