.\" vim:ft=nroff:
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License
.\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
.\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License
.\" at http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
.\"
.\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
.\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
.\" the License for the specific language governing rights and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The Original Code is RabbitMQ.
.\"
.\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Pivotal Software, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2019 Pivotal Software, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 29, 2019
.Dt RABBITMQ-DIAGNOSTICS 8
.Os "RabbitMQ Server"
.Sh NAME
.Nm rabbitmq-diagnostics
.Nd RabbitMQ diagnostics, monitoring and health checks tools
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Nm
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl n Ar node
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Ar command
.Op Ar command_options
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Nm
is a command line tool that provides commands used for diagnostics, monitoring
and health checks of RabbitMQ nodes.
See the
.Lk https://www.rabbitmq.com/documentation.html "RabbitMQ documentation guides"
to learn more about RabbitMQ diagnostics, monitoring and health checks.

.Nm
allows the operator to TODO.

.Pp
The
.Cm enable ,
.Cm disable ,
and
.Cm set
commands will update the plugins file and then attempt to connect to the
broker and ensure it is running all enabled plugins.
By default if it is not possible to connect to the running broker (for
example if it is stopped) the operation will fail.
If
.Nm
is used on the same host as the target node,
.Fl -offline
can be specified to make
.Nm
resolve and update plugin state directly (without contacting the node).
Such changes will only have an effect on next node start.
To learn more, see the
.Lk https://www.rabbitmq.com/plugins.html "RabbitMQ Plugins guide"
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh OPTIONS
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl n Ar node
Default node is
.Qq Pf rabbit@ Ar target-hostname ,
where
.Ar target-hostname
is the local host.
On a host named
.Qq myserver.example.com ,
the node name will usually be
.Qq rabbit@myserver
(unless
.Ev RABBITMQ_NODENAME
has been overridden).
The output of
.Qq hostname -s
is usually the correct suffix to use after the
.Qq @
sign.
See
.Xr rabbitmq-server 8
for details of configuring a RabbitMQ node.
.It Fl q , -quiet
Quiet output mode is selected.
Informational messages are reduced when quiet mode is in effect.
.It Fl s , -silent
Silent output mode is selected.
Informational messages are reduced and table headers are suppressed when silent mode is in effect.
.It Fl t Ar timeout , Fl -timeout Ar timeout
Operation timeout in seconds.
Not all commands support timeouts.
Default is
.Cm infinity .
.It Fl l , Fl -longnames
Must be specified when the cluster is configured to use long (FQDN) node names.
To learn more, see the
.Lk https://www.rabbitmq.com/clustering.html "RabbitMQ Clustering guide"
.It Fl -erlang-cookie Ar cookie
Shared secret to use to authenticate to the target node.
Prefer using a local file or the
.Ev RABBITMQ_ERLANG_COOKIE
environment variable instead of specifying this option on the command line.
To learn more, see the
.Lk https://www.rabbitmq.com/cli.html "RabbitMQ CLI Tools guide"
.El
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh COMMANDS
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
