.\" vim:ft=nroff:
.\" This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public 
.\" License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
.\" file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2020 VMware, Inc. or its affiliates.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd September 28, 2019
.Dt RABBITMQ-ENV.CONF 5
.Os "RabbitMQ Server"
.Sh NAME
.Nm rabbitmq-env.conf
.Nd environment variables used by RabbitMQ server
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Nm
contains environment variables that override the defaults built in to the
RabbitMQ scripts and CLI tools.
.Pp
The file is interpreted by the system shell, and so should consist of a
sequence of shell environment variable definitions.
Normal shell syntax is permitted (since the file is sourced using the
shell "." operator), including line comments starting with "#".
.Pp
In order of preference, the startup scripts get their values from the
environment, from
.Nm
and finally from the built-in default values.
For example, for the
.Ev RABBITMQ_NODENAME
setting,
.Ev RABBITMQ_NODENAME
from the environment is checked first.
If it is absent or equal to the empty string, then
.Ev NODENAME
from
.Nm
is checked.
If it is also absent or set equal to the empty string then the default
value from the startup script is used.
.Pp
The variable names in
.Nm
are always equal to the environment variable names, with the
.Qq RABBITMQ_
prefix removed:
.Ev RABBITMQ_NODE_PORT
from the environment becomes
.Ev NODE_PORT
in
.Nm .
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
Below is an example of a minimalistic
.Nm
file that overrides the default node name prefix from "rabbit" to
"hare".
.sp
.Dl # I am a complete rabbitmq-env.conf file.
.Dl # Comment lines start with a hash character.
.Dl # This is a /bin/sh script file - use ordinary envt var syntax
.Dl NODENAME=hare

In the below
.Nm
file RabbitMQ configuration file location is changed to "/data/services/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf".
.sp
.Dl # I am a complete rabbitmq-env.conf file.
.Dl # Comment lines start with a hash character.
.Dl # This is a /bin/sh script file - use ordinary envt var syntax
.Dl CONFIG_FILE=/data/services/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Xr rabbitmq-echopid 8 ,
.Xr rabbitmq-plugins 8 ,
.Xr rabbitmq-server 8 ,
.Xr rabbitmq-queues 8 ,
.Xr rabbitmq-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr rabbitmqctl 8
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh AUTHOR
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.An The RabbitMQ Team Aq Mt info@rabbitmq.com
