=head1 NAME

F</etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf> - default settings for RabbitMQ AMQP
server

=head1 DESCRIPTION

F</etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf> contains variable settings that override the
defaults built in to the RabbitMQ startup scripts.

The file is interpreted by the system shell, and so should consist of
a sequence of shell environment variable definitions. Normal shell
syntax is permitted (since the file is sourced using the shell "."
operator), including line comments starting with "#".

In order of preference, the startup scripts get their values from the
environment, from F</etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf> and finally from the
built-in default values. For example, for the B<RABBITMQ_NODENAME>
setting,

=over

=item B<RABBITMQ_NODENAME>

from the environment is checked first. If it is absent or equal to the
empty string, then

=item B<NODENAME>

from L</etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf> is checked. If it is also absent
or set equal to the empty string then the default value from the
startup script is used.

The variable names in /etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf are always equal to the
environment variable names, with the B<RABBITMQ_> prefix removed:
B<RABBITMQ_NODE_PORT> from the environment becomes B<NODE_PORT> in the
F</etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf> file, etc.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following is an example of a complete
F</etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf> file that overrides the default Erlang
node name from "rabbit" to "hare":

    # I am a complete /etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.conf file.
    # Comment lines start with a hash character.
    # This is a /bin/sh script file - use ordinary envt var syntax
    NODENAME=hare

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<rabbitmq-server(1)>, L<rabbitmq-multi(1)>, L<rabbitmqctl(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

Originally written by The RabbitMQ Team <info@rabbitmq.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This package, the RabbitMQ server is licensed under the MPL.

If you have any questions regarding licensing, please contact us at 
info@rabbitmq.com.

=head1 REFERENCES

RabbitMQ Web Site: L<http://www.rabbitmq.com>
